Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture.
We're going to be talking about parameters and arguments.
Now there is some common confusion here.
They are often used interchangeably and you can understand why when you start looking at it.
But strictly speaking parameters are used when defining a function like place holders which then when
we get to the arguments that the actual values used when we call a function.
Now let's implement a new guest checking function which we can use to demonstrate this Okay so let's
have a look at our code make sure we've got everything running as we would expect to see.
So setting up a game that's fine.
And then we set up the game here if the game's over.
That's fine.
And then.
So this is the bit that we're going to be focusing on else.
And then we've got all of this checking and what it would be much better to do here is instead of all
of this code we could move that out into processing the guess itself.
So we can call that function there but it's not going to be happy a it's not declared and it's not defined
anywhere even.
So we're just calling it at the moment as a place holder and then in a bit we can move all of this into
that new function.
Let's go ahead and start writing that function itself.
So at this point it's not going to return anything.
Then we've got the you bulk how cartridge and then process the yes curly brackets.
And there we go.
So it's not going to be happy at the moment because it's not declared anywhere.
So let's go over into the header file and declare our function and then we'll be able to start talking
about parameters and arguments okay.
Save my head a file over into the implementation and we should find now that it's absolutely happy I
mean process guest doesn't do anything.
So we've got no red squiggles everywhere.
Okay.
So looking at the declaration process guess what we need to put inside here is a parameter.
It's not going to be an argument until we actually have some values to fill.
Want to jump into the implementation quickly and have a look here.
So during all of this time that we have been checking the gas we've been using and checking the inputs
against the hidden word.
So when we go and process our gas we need to pass in something for that function to use.
Let's go ahead and move all of this out of the way so it's not cluttering our view and place it within
our function.
So that's looking good to me I'm going to save my work as it is there and this starts to demonstrate
the issues we're comparing it to inputs so we get a read script line because inputs now out of scope
so what we could do here is we could pass an input as an argument we get how red squiggle because in
our head of file we have not said input.
Now if we just leave it as inputs it won't work it won't work because we haven't given it a type.
Here we go is undefined.
It is an F string.
However that's not a really good name at this particular point in time.
However even though we are passing in the input then using inputs again no we won't do that.
That starting to get very confusing if you're using multiple variables or with the same name.
What what else could we call this.
Well guess would be appropriate.
So what we're doing here is we're defining a new variable a place holder variable in this case of type
f string ready to use.
And it's worth mentioning at this point that you don't actually have to name parameters we could just
have two different types in here and you'll see in a moment we've got an F string and we can also have
an integer but it's a good idea to name them at this point in time.
It helps you with auto completion and it also helps when someone else is looking at your code or your
looking at your code later Ron.
It's much better to read it in here rather than just your passing in some types.
It gives you much better readability of your code.
Now we could also at this point have more than one parameter.
I will remove this later on as well.
Let's say we had a counter and a counter Well that's likely to be an integer.
So that's fine.
We could pass in two parameters but watch this.
These parameters they are positional.
So at this point in time we're going to have a red squiggle here.
We've got too few arguments.
So this is an argument the impasse then.
So let's say we've got input and for argument's sake let's pass in lives as well that will take the
value of lives and puts it.
We don't have any other integer for the moment.
So let's go ahead and pass in lives and then down here where we start processing the gas if we hover
over is incompatible.
Well what does all this mean.
Well it simply means that we don't actually have any parameters here.
So let's think what we have.
We had our f string.
Now it might seem a bit onerous to have to type it again but this is what we need to do we need to define
a new variable guess that we're going to use.
Now we could call it to anything at this point but it will have to match what we've got before.
And then we have an int 32 which was our counter and then we've got this issue here.
So we can go ahead here and correct that's now because we're evaluating a new is copied.
The value is past the value into this function and it is now being used as guests.
Now what we cannot do is just use these arbitrarily.
So with the in 30 to counter and then an F string guess that won't work.
And the reason why this is now not working is quite straightforward.
You think it might do but no.
If we have a look at where we declared it this is an absolute.
Here we are saying that the process s function is going to taken an F string.
In this case we have named it.
Incidentally what I was talking about earlier is you could have these like this.
Now you may run across code that does do that perhaps it does multiple things takes in different values.
But for our game it is far better if these things are named at this point.
So we have a declaration that takes in an F string and then an integer.
That's important.
The names here that's for Iowa benefits.
Let's say for head to file for the moment go back over to the implementation.
So when it's around this away in this particular case on line 61 we are defining a function that has
not been declared yet.
That is literally the problem.
The problem further up here.
This would also be a problem as if we scroll down you will see that we've not defined an F string and
an integer.
Currently we have defined an integer and an F string so it will fail because this function call hasn't
been defined anywhere.
So we need to do some tidying up here to make our code better again.
So we're going to set this back to just the input.
That's fine because that's what we're passing in it's going to complain at this point that there's not
enough arguments.
That's because here we've declared there are going to be two parameters.
So it's expecting two arguments to be placed in there we go the red squiggle has gone down here we've
got a problem and it's the order with finding something that has not been declared so he can go ahead
and say that and then the final one is we use inputs again down here so let's go ahead and change that
to guess make sure that we save our work.
Excellent.
And then let's go and test it over ingame sets go ahead compile our code remembering that at this point
because we have modified the header Fala is gonna take longer let's play our game seems to work so far.
Let's check the losing.
Yep that's fine.
And of course winning.
Brilliant.
You have one.
Excellent.
So that is working absolutely fine which is expected.
Now we've done quite a quite a big refactor of the code we've moved everything into its own function
and it's still working absolutely fine and our code is much more readable.
And speaking of readability we're going to be focusing more on that in the next lecture.
See you there.